---
layout: post
title: CS373 Week 1
swe: true
---

Week one of Software Engineering with Dr. Fraij has passed. Only one week has passed, but there is a lot to look forward too. I'm excited to finally learn Python. I always hear about it's straightforwardness and accessibility, and of course its extremely popular. It also seems that in this class we'll delve deep into the language and write a lot of code, so I hope to have a deep knowledge of Python by the end of the semester. Lastly, it seems we'll other important concepts about programming, such as refactoring, as well as learning about some social aspects of programming via the papers. Good stuff.

In fact, the first project, the Collatz project, has already taught me quite a bit about software development. Installing python was easy, but dealing with multiple versions was tough, as I forgot the default version of Python on OSX was 2.7. Even when I did use the correct version of Python in the terminal, I had to edit the provided Makefile to use the correct version of Python on my computer. However, that caused errors on Travis CI, which I had to learn how to fix. A lot of work before writing a single line of code! Of course, that's how it often is in the real world.

I learned about a couple of useful tools while setting up the project.

* PyCharm: I finally switched from Sublime Text. I hope it makes me a more productive developer.
* iTerm and `oh-my-zsh`: If you're on a Mac and haven't yet, get these. They make your terminal experience so much better. To learn how to optimize your terminal, I used [this tutorial](http://commandlinepoweruser.com/).
* `ghi`: The project requirements for Collatz require us to create a lot of GitHub issues. `ghi` integrates GitHub Issues into your terminal. This makes it much easier to create and view Issues.